# Machine-Learning-Models-for-COVID-19-Infection-Prediction
COVID-19 is an infectious and contagious viral Respiratory disease caused by a newly discovered virus called Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) also known as Novel Coronavirus. In China, where the outbreak first started, the basic reproduction number, R0, is found to be between 2-2.5, varying across the region. Between January and October of 2020, the  SARS-CoV-2 virus had infected more than 34 million persons leading to over one million deaths worldwide. Harnessing non-clinical techniques such as machine learning, data mining, deep learning and other artificial intelligence techniques would facilitate diagnosis and prognosis for covid-19 pandemic patients. Persons with underlying health conditions or other recognized risk factors for severe effects from respiratory infections appear to be at a higher risk from COVID-19 than the others. So understanding the prior health conditions would help us to make a smarter decision. The epidemiology labeled dataset for positive and negative COVID-19 cases is obtained  from the Mexican government and hence, the analysis is valid for Mexico or maybe North America. The pandemic statistics and behaviours are extremely different for Asian countries when compared to North American or European countries owing to a far lower case fatality rate for Asia. 

Our objective is to develop a COVID-19 prediction system to contribute to the current human crisis with a view to complementing and reducing the huge burden on the limited healthcare system. In this case study, we propose to generate a more accurate diagnosis model of COVID-19 based on patient symptoms and routine test results by applying machine learning to reanalyzing COVID-19 data and to predict whether a patient is positive or negative. Data preprocessing involves preparing the data in a way that it can be used for a machine learning process. Proposed system combines data preprocessing and data visualizations to identify the relationship with different features and for feature selection. The prediction model is implemented by using different classification algorithms such as KNN, Decision Tree, Logistic Regression, SVM, Random Forest classifier, Gradient Boosting etc. The accuracy and precision check whether our model is efficient and robust. The proposed machine learning-based computational system deployed in python flask can be used in emergency departments for rapid and accurate risk prediction of COVID-19 patients.

An epidemiology dataset of positive and negative COVID-19 cases from Mexico is used in this study; the dataset was reported by the General Directorate of Epidemiology, Secretariat of Health in Mexico and made available on their official website. The dataset contains the lab Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) testing results for COVID-19 cases in Mexico. The dataset has 566602 instances or records with 23 features with unspecified values. It contains demographic and clinical data as well as results of RT-PCR tests for COVID-19 in patients with a viral respiratory diagnosis. After data preprocessing the dataset has been divided ratio 80:20 as a training set and a testing set for model building.
